Text spllitrs compoent

what is text splitter:
is the process of breaking of large chunks of text(like artickes,pdf's,html pages or boooks) in to smaller,managable pieces(chunks)

Think you have a very big file of pdf,if you want to do some sort of processing on it,its very deficult to process on very large file or documet.

wht we can do, we can devide the ;arge pdfs in to small small chunks,based on pages or paragraph,
this process is called text spliters. that llm will handle effetively.

why
the llm we have has some max context length or limit.some llm will have 50000 tokens 

many emdeding models and language models have maximum input size constraints. splitting alllows us to process documents that would otherwise exceed the limits
\splitters helps in downstream tasks like
embeddings: short chunks yield more accurate vectors
Sementic search: 
summarization:previent hallucination


optimizing computational resources:

4 diffent text spliiters

1) length based
text structure based
documen structured based
sementic based search
..........

1) lengh based text splitters:
we decise what shoud be the size of each chunks.
size we can define in form of char or tokens

give an example:

the disadabtge:
wgile chunking it will con consider the text lungvestic structure,gramer,or ssymantic meaning. 

explan chunk overlap
with help of chunk over lap we can retain the context.
2)xt structured based etxt splitting:


recursivechartextsplliting 
we difine the separators like
\n\n for paragraph
\n for line 
" " for space

first it try to make the chuk in paragraph wise
if no paragraph found it tgryies to mak chub in setences,
then words then finally char

explain with small example
diagram

3) document structured based
we will use seme RecursiveCharacterTextSplitter nut the main diffrence is we use separators.
think i have an python code if i wnat to split thst using RecursiveCharacterTextSplitter we need to ptovide separaors like
\nclass
\ndef
\tdef
\n\n
\n
" "
""
this is used in specal type of dicuments like codes

explain with the example simple

5) symentic meaningbased
exmpla:
Farmers were working hard in the fields, preparing the soil and planting seeds for the next season. The sun was bright, and the air smelled of earth and fresh grass.
The Indian Premier League (IPL) is the biggest cricket league in the world. People all over the world watch the matches and cheer for their favourite teams.

Terrorism is a big danger to peace and safety. It causes harm to people and creates fear in cities and villages. When such attacks happen, they leave behind pain and sadness. To fight terrorism, we need strong laws, alert security forces, and support from people who care about peace and safety.


idelly we need to get 3 chunks becakuse in fst para we are taking about two diffrent tipic

we are taking decusin based on teh symentc menaing then e are making chunks




